even at the height of summer less than
3% of Antarctica is free of ice and
nearly all of that exposed rock is found
in one place the Antarctic Peninsula
[Music]
it's long arm extends further north and
the rest of the continent so spring
arrives here first
[Music]
before unlocks sheltered Bay's that
provide refuge from the relentless
battering of the Southern Ocean in the
depths something stirs
humpback whales they have traveled over
5000 miles to reach these waters
[Music]
the whales are harvesting krill
shrimp-like creatures that begin to
swarm here as soon as the ice freeze
[Music]
diving into the heart of the swarm teams
of whales spiral round each other
in close coordination now they turn
blasting air from their blowholes and
ascend towards their prey the krill
becomes concentrated as the spiralling
net of bubbles draws English
[Music]
the team of whales work round the clock
for the boom is short-lived summer is
already fading and the whales will soon
be forced north as winter returns the
sun's influence diminishes and the ocean
starts to freeze the greatest seasonal
change on our planet is underway the ice
grows at an extraordinary rate advancing
two and a half miles a day in a matter
of weeks the continent effectively
doubles in size
[Music]
life flee us from Anton
you